<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-3" id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 class="nobreak" id="ch3-13">XIII • <span class="it">The Cliff Road</span></h2>
			<p>Eric Collinson wired me from Quesada:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Come immediately stop need you stop trouble danger stop meet me at Sunset Hotel stop do not communicate stop Gabrielle must not know stop hurry</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender">Eric Carter</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The telegram came to the agency on Friday morning.</p>
			<p>I wasn’t in San Francisco that morning. I was up in Martinez dickering with a divorced wife of Phil Leach, alias a lot of names. We wanted him for spreading reams of orphan paper through the Northwest, and we wanted him badly. This ex-wife⁠—a sweet-looking little blonde telephone operator⁠—had a fairly recent photograph of Phil, and was willing to sell it.</p>
			<p>“He never thought enough of me to risk passing any bum checks so I could have things,” she complained. “I had to bring in my own share of the nut. So why shouldn’t I make something out of him now, when I guess some tramp’s getting plenty? Now how much will you give for it?”</p>
			<p>She had an exaggerated idea of how much the photograph was worth to us, of course, but I finally made the deal with her. But it was after six when I returned to the city, too late for a train that would put me in Quesada that night. I packed a bag, got my car from the garage, and drove down.</p>
			<p>Quesada was a one-hotel town pasted on the rocky side of a young mountain that sloped into the Pacific Ocean some eighty miles from San Francisco. Quesada’s beach was too abrupt and hard and jagged for bathing, so Quesada had never got much summer-resort money. For a while it had been a hustling rum-running port, but that racket was dead now: bootleggers had learned there was more profit and less worry in handling domestic hooch than imported. Quesada had gone back to sleep.</p>
			<p>I got there at eleven-something that night, garaged my car, and crossed the street to the Sunset Hotel. It was a low, sprawled-out, yellow building. The night clerk was alone in the lobby, a small effeminate man well past sixty who went to a lot of trouble to show me that his fingernails were rosy and shiny.</p>
			<p>When he had read my name on the register he gave me a sealed envelope⁠—hotel stationery⁠—addressed to me in Eric Collinson’s handwriting. I tore it open and read:</p>
			<div class="literal-container" style="">
				<div class="literal">
					<!-- rend=';' -->
					<p class="line">
						<span class="it">Do not leave the hotel</span>
					</p>
					<p class="line">
						<span class="it">until I have seen you.</span>
					</p>
					<p class="line"> </p>
					<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;">
						<span class="it">E. C.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
			</div>
			<!-- end rend -->
			<p>“How long has this been here?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“Since about eight o’clock. Mr. Carter waited for you for more than an hour, until after the last stage came in from the railroad.”</p>
			<p>“He isn’t staying here?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, dear, no. He and his bride have got the Tooker place, down in the cove.”</p>
			<p>Collinson wasn’t the sort of person to whose instructions I’d pay a whole lot of attention. I asked:</p>
			<p>“How do you get there?”</p>
			<p>“You’d never be able to find it at night,” the clerk assured me, “unless you went all the way around by the East road, and not then, I’m sure, unless you knew the country.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah? How do you get there in the daytime?”</p>
			<p>“You go down this street to the end, take the fork of the road on the ocean side, and follow that up along the cliff. It isn’t really a road, more of a path. It’s about three miles to the house, a brown house, shingled all over, on a little hill. It’s easily enough found in the daytime if you remember to keep to the right, to the ocean side, all the way down. But you’d never, never in the world, be able to find⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Thanks,” I said, not wanting to hear the story all over again.</p>
			<p>He led me up to a room, promised to call me at five, and I was asleep by midnight.</p>
			<p>The morning was dull, ugly, foggy, and cold when I climbed out of bed to say, “All right, thanks,” into the phone. It hadn’t improved much by the time I had got dressed and gone downstairs. The clerk said there was not a chance in the world of getting anything to eat in Quesada before seven o’clock.</p>
			<p>I went out of the hotel, down the street until it became a dirt road, kept to the dirt road until it forked, and turned into the branch that bent toward the ocean. This branch was never really a road from its beginning, and soon was nothing but a rocky path climbing along the side of a rocky ledge that kept pushing closer to the water’s edge. The side of the ledge became steeper and steeper, until the path was simply an irregular shelf on the face of a cliff⁠—a shelf eight or ten feet wide in places, no more than four or five in others. Above and behind the path, the cliff rose sixty or seventy feet; below and in front, it slanted down a hundred or more to ravel out in the ocean. A breeze from the general direction of China was pushing fog over the top of the cliff, making noisy lather of sea-water at its bottom.</p>
			<p>Rounding a corner where the cliff was steepest⁠—was, in fact, for a hundred yards or so, straight up and down⁠—I stopped to look at a small ragged hole in the path’s outer rim. The hole was perhaps six inches across, with fresh loose earth piled in a little semicircular mound on one side, scattered on the other. It wasn’t exciting to look at, but it said plainly to even such a city man as I was: here a bush was uprooted not so long ago.</p>
			<p>There was no uprooted bush in sight. I chucked my cigarette away and got down on hands and knees, putting my head out over the path’s rim, looking down. I saw the bush twenty feet below. It was perched on the top of a stunted tree that grew almost parallel to the cliff, fresh brown earth sticking to the bush’s roots. The next thing that caught my eye was also brown⁠—a soft hat lying upside down between two pointed gray rocks, half-way down to the water. I looked at the bottom of the cliff and saw the feet and legs.</p>
			<p>They were a man’s feet and legs, in black shoes and dark trousers. The feet lay on the top of a water-smoothed boulder, lay on their sides, six inches apart, both pointing to the left. From the feet, dark-trousered legs slanted down into the water, disappearing beneath the surface a few inches above the knees. That was all I could see from the cliff road.</p>
			<p>I went down the cliff, though not at that point. It was a lot too steep there to be tackled by a middle-aged fat man. A couple of hundred yards back, the path had crossed a crooked ravine that creased the cliff diagonally from top to bottom. I returned to the ravine and went down it, stumbling, sliding, sweating and swearing, but reaching the bottom all in one piece, with nothing more serious the matter with me than torn fingers, dirty clothes, and ruined shoes.</p>
			<p>The fringe of rock that lay between cliff and ocean wasn’t meant to be walked on, but I managed to travel over it most of the way, having to wade only once or twice, and then not up to my knees. But when I came to the spot where the feet and legs were I had to go waist-deep into the Pacific to lift the body, which rested on its back on the worn slanting side of a mostly submerged boulder, covered from thighs up by frothing water. I got my hands under the armpits, found solid ground for my feet, and lifted.</p>
			<p>It was Eric Collinson’s body. Bones showed through flesh and clothing on his shattered back. The back of his head⁠—that half of it⁠—was crushed. I dragged him out of the water and put him down on dry rocks. His dripping pockets contained a hundred and fifty-four dollars and eighty-two cents, a watch, a knife, a gold pen and pencil, papers, a couple of letters, and a memoranda book. I spread out the papers, letters, and book; and read them; and learned nothing except that what was written in them hadn’t anything to do with his death. I couldn’t find anything else⁠—on him or near him⁠—to tell me more about his death than the uprooted bush, the hat caught between rocks, and the position of his body had told me.</p>
			<p>I left him there and went back to the ravine, panting and heaving myself up it to the cliff path, returning to where the bush had grown. I didn’t find anything there in the way of significant marks, footprints, or the like. The path was chiefly hard rock. I went on along it. Presently the cliff began to bend away from the ocean, lowering the path along its side. After another half-mile there was no cliff at all, merely a bush-grown ridge at whose foot the path ran. There was no sun yet. My pants stuck disagreeably to my chilly legs. Water squinched in my torn shoes. I hadn’t had any breakfast. My cigarettes had got wet. My left knee ached from a twist it had got sliding down the ravine. I cursed the detective business and slopped on along the path.</p>
			<p>The path took me away from the sea for a while, across the neck of a wooded point that pushed the ocean back, down into a small valley, up the side of a low hill; and then I saw the house the night clerk had described.</p>
			<p>It was a rather large two-story building, roof and walls brown-shingled, set on a hump in the ground close to where the ocean came in to take a quarter-mile u-shaped bite out of the coast. The house faced the water. I was behind it. There was nobody in sight. The ground-floor windows were closed, with drawn blinds. The second-story windows were open. Off to one side were some smaller farm buildings.</p>
			<p>I went around to the front of the house. Wicker chairs and a table were on the screened front porch. The screened porch-door was hooked on the inside. I rattled it noisily. I rattled it off and on for at least five minutes, and got no response. I went around to the rear again, and knocked on the back door. My knocking knuckles pushed the door open half a foot. Inside was a dark kitchen and silence. I opened the door wider, knocking on it again, loudly. More silence.</p>
			<p>I called: “Mrs. Collinson.”</p>
			<p>When no answer came I went through the kitchen and a darker dining-room, found a flight of stairs, climbed them, and began poking my head into rooms.</p>
			<p>There was nobody in the house.</p>
			<p>In one bedroom, a .38 automatic pistol lay in the center of the floor. There was an empty shell close to it, another under a chair across the room, and a faint odor of burnt gunpowder in the air. In one corner of the ceiling was a hole that a .38 bullet could have made, and, under it on the floor, a few crumbs of plaster. The bed-clothes were smooth and undisturbed. Clothes in the closet, things on and in table and bureau, told me this was Eric Collinson’s bedroom.</p>
			<p>Next to it, according to the same sort of evidence, was Gabrielle’s bedroom. Her bed had not been slept in, or had been made since being slept in. On the floor of her closet I found a black satin dress, a once-white handkerchief, and a pair of black suede slippers, all wet and muddy⁠—the handkerchief also wet with blood. In her bathroom⁠—in the tub⁠—were a bath-towel and a face-towel, both stained with mud and blood, and still damp. On her dressing-table was a small piece of thick white paper that had been folded. White powder clung to one crease. I touched it with the end of my tongue⁠—morphine.</p>
			<p>I went back to Quesada, changed my shoes and socks, got breakfast and a supply of dry cigarettes, and asked the clerk⁠—a dapper boy, this one⁠—who was responsible for law and order there.</p>
			<p>“The marshal’s Dick Cotton,” he told me; “but he went up to the city last night. Ben Rolly’s deputy sheriff. You can likely find him over at his old man’s office.”</p>
			<p>“Where’s that?”</p>
			<p>“Next door to the garage.”</p>
			<p>I found it, a one-story red brick building with wide glass windows labeled <span class="it">J. King Rolly, Real Estate, Mortgages, Loans, Stocks and Bonds, Insurance, Notes, Employment Agency, Notary Public, Moving and Storage</span>, and a lot more that I’ve forgotten.</p>
			<p>Two men were inside, sitting with their feet on a battered desk behind a battered counter. One was a man of fifty-and, with hair, eyes, and skin of indefinite, washed-out tan shades⁠—an amiable, aimless-looking man in shabby clothes. The other was twenty years younger and in twenty years would look just like him.</p>
			<p>“I’m hunting,” I said, “for the deputy sheriff.”</p>
			<p>“Me,” the younger man said, easing his feet from desk to floor. He didn’t get up. Instead, he put a foot out, hooked a chair by its rounds, pulled it from the wall, and returned his feet to the desk-top. “Set down. This is Pa,” wiggling a thumb at the other man. “You don’t have to mind him.”</p>
			<p>“Know Eric Carter?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“The fellow honeymooning down to the Tooker place? I didn’t know his front name was Eric.”</p>
			<p>“Eric Carter,” the elder Rolly said; “that’s the way I made out the rent receipt for him.”</p>
			<p>“He’s dead,” I told them. “He fell off the cliff road last night or this morning. It could have been an accident.”</p>
			<p>The father looked at the son with round tan eyes. The son looked at me with questioning tan eyes and said: “Tch, tch, tch.”</p>
			<p>I gave him a card. He read it carefully, turning it over to see that there was nothing on its back, and passed it to his father.</p>
			<p>“Go down and take a look at him?” I suggested.</p>
			<p>“I guess I ought to,” the deputy sheriff agreed, getting up from his chair. He was a larger man than I had supposed⁠—as big as the dead Collinson boy⁠—and, in spite of his slouchiness, he had a nicely muscled body.</p>
			<p>I followed him out to a dusty car in front of the office. Rolly senior didn’t go with us.</p>
			<p>“Somebody told you about it?” the deputy sheriff asked when we were riding.</p>
			<p>“I stumbled on him. Know who the Carters are?”</p>
			<p>“Somebody special?”</p>
			<p>“You heard about the Riese murder in the San Francisco temple?”</p>
			<p>“Uh-huh, I read the papers.”</p>
			<p>“Mrs. Carter was the Gabrielle Leggett mixed up in that, and Carter was the Eric Collinson.”</p>
			<p>“Tch, tch, tch,” he said.</p>
			<p>“And her father and step-mother were killed a couple of weeks before that.”</p>
			<p>“Tch, tch, tch,” he said. “What’s the matter with them?”</p>
			<p>“A family curse.”</p>
			<p>“Sure enough?”</p>
			<p>I didn’t know how seriously he meant that question, though he seemed serious enough. I hadn’t got him sized up yet. However, clown or not, he was the deputy sheriff stationed at Quesada, and this was his party. He was entitled to the facts. I gave them to him as we bounced over the lumpy road, gave him all I had, from Paris in 1913 to the cliff road a couple of hours ago.</p>
			<p>“When they came back from being married in Reno, Collinson dropped in to see me. They had to stick around for the Haldorn bunch’s trial, and he wanted a quiet place to take the girl: she was still in a daze. You know Owen Fitzstephan?”</p>
			<p>“The writer fellow that was down here a while last year? Uh-huh.”</p>
			<p>“Well, he suggested this place.”</p>
			<p>“I know. The old man mentioned it. But what’d they take them aliases for?”</p>
			<p>“To dodge publicity, and, partly, to try to dodge something like this.”</p>
			<p>He frowned vaguely and asked:</p>
			<p>“You mean they expected something like this?”</p>
			<p>“Well, it’s easy to say, ‘I told you so,’ after things happen, but I’ve never thought we had the answer to either of the two mix-ups she’s been in. And not having the answer⁠—how could you tell what to expect? I didn’t think so much of their going off into seclusion like this while whatever was hanging over her⁠—if anything was⁠—was still hanging over her, but Collinson was all for it. I made him promise to wire me if he saw anything funny. Well, he did.”</p>
			<p>Rolly nodded three or four times, then asked:</p>
			<p>“What makes you think he didn’t fall off the cliff?”</p>
			<p>“He sent for me. Something was wrong. Outside of that, too many things have happened around his wife for me to believe in accidents.”</p>
			<p>“There’s the curse, though,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” I agreed, studying his indefinite face, still trying to figure him out. “But the trouble with it is it’s worked out too well, too regularly. It’s the first one I ever ran across that did.”</p>
			<p>He frowned over my opinion for a couple of minutes, and then stopped the car. “We’ll have to get out here: the road ain’t so good the rest of the way.” None of it had been. “Still and all, you do hear of them working out. There’s things that happen that makes a fellow think there’s things in the world⁠—in life⁠—that he don’t know much about.” He frowned again as we set off afoot, and found a word he liked. “It’s inscrutable,” he wound up.</p>
			<p>I let that go at that.</p>
			<p>He went ahead up the cliff path, stopping of his own accord where the bush had been torn up, a detail I hadn’t mentioned. I didn’t say anything while he stared down at Collinson’s body, looked searchingly up and down the face of the cliff, and then went up and down the path, bent far over, his tan eyes intent on the ground.</p>
			<p>He wandered around for ten minutes or more, then straightened up and said: “There’s nothing here that I can find. Let’s go down.”</p>
			<p>I started back toward the ravine, but he said there was a better way ahead. There was. We went down it to the dead man.</p>
			<p>Rolly looked from the corpse to the edge of the path high above us, and complained: “I don’t hardly see how he could have landed just that-away.”</p>
			<p>“He didn’t. I pulled him out of the water,” I said, showing the deputy exactly where I had found the body.</p>
			<p>“That would be more like it,” he decided.</p>
			<p>I sat on a rock and smoked a cigarette while he went around examining, touching, moving rocks, pebbles, and sand. He didn’t seem to have any luck.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
